# ``Have we surrendered our culture to technology, and, if so, is that necessarily bad?''

- Technology is inherently cultural
    + Postman for all his vision and geniality seems oblivious to the deep intertwining of culture and technology in it's proper aspect. He depicts it as an clash between Culture and Technology opposed, while the truth is technology is *always* a byproduct of cultural characteristics
    + For every technology that becomes popular, there is beforehand a cultural setting that calls for that technology to exist at all. Most importantly, this is true in an absolutely timeless manner. If we look at the overwhelming success of Snapchat for example, we can easily dissect what led to its success. Modern, specially Western, culture has ingrained in its core the vice of narcissism, there is a constant, overwhelming cult to the image of the self. With smartphones and "front-facing cameras" the public, reflecting it's cultural setting, created the *concept* of a "selfie", a picture of oneself without the need of context, landscape, setting, or occasion. This new, inherently cultural, form of medium lacked a proper form for it's exchange, sending "selfies" to others on "normal", (contextual, persistent, chronological) messaging mediums is awkward, and because of this, and to fill this void created by culture itself, Snapchat was created, and because of this it has succeeded.
    + Another example to be looked at is that of the loom, that is the machine used to manufacture fabrics. If it was not customary (cultural) for societies to wear fabric clothes, then the loom probably would never have been invented, for there was no cultural pressure to incentive (?) it, and had it been invented it most certainly would not have spread to the omnipresence we know of today, for there would have been no pressure to sustain it. This is to say that the ails that (successful) technology eases predate the technology, and are cause by cultural decisions.
    + Of course one can look at the previous case study and claim that there is a form of "recursion fallacy" being committed, since for the "selfie" to be culturally conceptualized in the first place the smartphone, yet another technology, had to be created. To this, however, the exact same point can be (continuously) applied, the smartphone is a cultural byproduct and it fills a gap generated by culture.
    + From a higher-kinded approach, the recursion exposed above can be seen as a product of the same lexico-semantical parametric form of the timeless "Which came first, the chicken or the egg?" problem, so called causality dilemmas. Therefore, the entire discussion can be summarized into a discussion of whether technology predates culture, or vice-versa, in which case it suffices to show that humans are inherently and necessarily cultural to prove by induction that technology is then a byproduct of this cultural dimension of humanity.
    + In order to continue with the argument, we must first carefully define both culture and technology in ways that can be argued about and from which thoughtful analysis can stem. Firstly, we define [Culture][Culture] as being ``the integrated pattern of human knowledge, belief, and behavior...''. Here, it is important to take wide, but not cumbersome, definition of knowledge. Perhaps the most appropriate one would come from Jennifer Nagel's "Knowledge", and is simply to say that knowledge is information which is known (by someone), to the scope of this essay, and as far as we can tell, this means information that is know to Humans. Although this last definition might feel like it commits a circular dependency, it is reliable given the restriction made on things being known to humans, which creates a disconnect with *knowing* and *knowledge*, represented, for example, in the fact that an animal's knowing of the presence of a predator is *not* knowledge, despite it being *known*, for it knowledge is purely human. We will leave the moral questions this may generate with regards to animal consciousness aside, since it is beyond the point.
    + Again, culture is a union of three sets, (human) knowledge, beliefs, and behavior. As Descartes and may others famously showed, one knows beyond any doubt and without requirements of the existence of the self, for to become conscious of the question requires itself existence. It is then, fair to say that humans have *a priori* knowledge of their own existence, and also *a priori* beliefs of their surroundings (that they have a body, that their vision is truthful, etc), and it is also trivial that humans have a set of inherent behaviors (instincts). This is to say however, that humans have culture *a priori*, if the elements that compose it are inherent then it is itself inherent (I think this requires the Axiom of Choice logically, which may or may not be consistent, however assuming its consistency is commonplace). With this result, it becomes clear that culture itself predates, and therefore defines, technology.
    + Culture has not, and could not have, surrendered itself to technology. Technology is simply a facet of culture itself, one of its many drapings. Postman's error lies in his borderline anthropomorphic depiction of Technology, as if it were a united, sentient form somehow that attacks culture. Although he does not, throughout the book, say this, the mental model he constructs is definitely analogous. The technological struggle is always performed by humans, and humans are deeply embedded in culture, and this transmits to and shapes technology.
    + Postman, in his analysis of Thamusian skepticism points the fault in Thamus' argument to the fact that he ignores the benefits that writing would bring to society. While this is true, it also misses the deeper and more important omission made by Thamus: That society needed writing. As society developed, so did the amount of accumulated knowledge, and there is a physical limit to how much one can reliable know in one's own head. It would be impossible for society to advance much further, once this limit was nigh, and because of this society *required* writing. The point being that writing's downfall, that it damages memory, was the point in itself, reliance on memory was no longer enough. Culture had grown too large for the mind of the individual, and so it petitioned technology a solution, which was writing.

[Culture]: https://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/culture
